Rollback Guides (#1360)
OctopusDeploy/docs: docs/deployments/patterns/rollbacks/tomcat/index.md

1.  Create Database If Not Exists
1.  Deploy Database Changes
1.  Deploy PetClinic Web App
1.  Verify Deployment
1.  Notify Stakeholders

![](octopus-original-deployment-process.png)

View that deployment process on [samples instance](https://samples.octopus.app/app#/Spaces-762/projects/01-petclinic-original/deployments/process).  Please login as a guest.

## Zero Configuration Rollback
!include <zero-configuration-rollback>

## Simple Rollback Process
While doing a rollback can be an operational exercise, the most typical reason for a rollback is something is wrong with the release, and you need to back out the changes.  A bad release should also be [prevented from moving forward](/docs/releases/prevent-release-progression.md).

The updated deployment process for a simple rollback would look like this:

1. Calculate Deployment Mode
1. Create Database If Not Exists (skip during rollback)
1. Deploy Database Changes (skip during rollback)
1. Deploy PetClinic Web App
1. Verify Deployment
1. Notify Stakeholders
1. Block Release Progression

![](octopus-simple-rollback-process.png)

> View that deployment process on [samples instance](https://samples.octopus.app/app#/Spaces-762/projects/02-petclinic-simplerollback/deployments/process).  Please login as a guest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::success
View the deployment process on [samples instance](https://samples.octopus.app/app#/Spaces-762/projects/02-petclinic-simplerollback/deployments/process).  Please login as a guest.
:::
```

### Calculate Deployment Mode
!include <calculate-deployment-mode>

### Skipping Database Steps
The two database steps, `Create Database If Not Exists` and `Deploy Database Changes` should be skipped for a rollback scenario.  Rolling back database changes could result in data loss or interrupt testing operations.  To skip these steps, we'll use one of the Variable Run Condition output variables from Calculate Depoloyment Mode step:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```
